17 Jul 2024:
Pirate Software Jam. The idea is some kind of dual game, where one side is
action and the other side is more strategy/logistics, and doing well in one
allows you to do better in the other.

So what's the first thing that we can work on there? We can either do the day
mode or the night mode. I like the night mode being something where you get
the shadows to follow you or something like that. Whatever it is, it should be
something that works well with having different kinds of upgrades.

I also would like there to be something similar with the mechanics. The
automation eventually doesn't matter exactly what is being done, just that it
is being automated. So having something like similar mechanics could be kinda
cool.

Okay, that was kinda fun. But now we actually have to make the things right?
What do we make first? Which mode. I think it has to be the day mode. I think
it might be easier to tweak and tune the night to be fun (though I've never
actually done that myself before...) But I think the day mode has a lot of
fundamental stuff that still needs to be figured out.

So lets start off with the day stuff. So we need a player to move around. And
then a thing to mine. Then a way to move the mined things around and then to
process them. Ideally the processing things should be simple enough, and the
day progression shouldn't be too complicated. I like the idea of structures
that have an orientation, so that they can be used to block the paths.

SOmething like that. For now lets just get the basics working. Step 1 is
character movement, and grid creation. Where can I steal player movement from.
Should there be acc and all? I think so yes. But very responsive.

Okay. Next would be som ekind of mining. How would we do that? Create mines.
THen click on that, and the thing should come out. Then what? How to move it?
And how does that tie into the other one? In the sense that how does one
mechanic in the daytome affect the nighttime mechanics? So if you mine somet
hing, it probably pops out somewhere. THen it needs to be moved. Hopefully in
a clever way that both is automatable in a way that works. I think because of
the controls, we have to spend some time thinking about the things. Ideally,
it should be as low effort as possible, as small a number of controls, just be
very contextual. Easier to develop maybe overall. Or who knows. I think its a
good chance to get a handle on omaking something like that. I hate that its
been a whole day and literally all I have is a rectangle on screen and a new
git repp. As if those are somehow the important things.

---

19 Jul 2024:
Back to work baby. We've not really done much yet. But we don't work on self
hatred. We work on self love. So just move forward. There are still a lot of
days to go, so lets actually focus on giving our best and not getting
distracted and stuffs.

So I think we are focussing on the day. So that would mean that we need to
create the mining things. So create ore patches.
Oh man we need a better way to manage the grid vs world, and the y positive v
not positive. Maybe that should be done in engine, not in code. Should we make
the whole thing grid based? No I think that might not suit the action bits
that well.

The next thing would be to implement the mining. But also along with the
mining we wouldhave to figure out exactly what happens when we mine the thing.
I think it could be something like the ore gets created on the other side of
the the patch. So that's somewhat clear. Then the movement of ore also needs
to be somewhat easily signallable that it takes energy. Or maybe the
automation can be done something like oddsparks. You create a path for the
djinn, and they follow that and when they hit a station, they will do the
task. All paths need to be loops, with a fixed starting point. I like that.
Should be simple enough to grok. Then there would be stations, and no rules I
think. If you want a task to be done, put a station there. Okay I like it.

I have to wonder whether some of this is out of scope. We have greatly
(probably) increased the complexity of implementation of this whole thing. But
I think that's okay. Overall, this is not just about making something for the
jam, but also about prototyping something different and see if it fits in our
wheelhouse.

Then there is also a question as to what would be the currency for daytime. So
if we are going to create building structures as a mechanic, then probable we
shouldn't be using the full screen real estate for just the world. We will
need place for menus etc.

Or maybe all loops have to start from home. There is no real idea of
efficienct except there sort of is right? We say that djinn can only carry
things so far. Then that home wala idea doesn't really work. Hmm okay. Lets
keep going though. I guess then the next step would be to build the structure
then.

Should we have the same currency for night and day? I don't particularly like
that because it would mean that... I instead prefer the idea that the base
materials can be used for either day currency or night currency. THen the
player makes strategic choices and builds the things that they want.

The more I think about how I would want the ideal version of this thing to
work, the more out of scope it begins to feel.. But I think that's not
something to worry about right now. Instead, we worry about that later, where
we can take a decision not to complete the things for hte jam or whatever.
That would suck, but its okay.

Instead, lets set the goals for today. Complete the full day prototype?
Nothing less? I mean I think its not impossible. Basically build mode should
be different I think. At the start of the day you decide what are the
structures that you want to build.

I also like the idea of quicksilver. Its something that needs to be extracted
some other way, and is used throughout all the processes. So overall, from a
gameplay standpoint, we need to figure out exactly how some of these things
will go. We wither have a choice of things being completely decoupled, where
what the djinns do is on a separate layer from what the player does. Or just
have it be that the player cannot actually do anything, and can only control
the djinn. Overall, I think the second option makes a little more sense.
Otherwise there may be a bunch of wierd complications between how their
interactions don't always make sense. This does make the overall automation a
little less satisfying? Because you start off with automation, not build into
it. Lets see how oddsparks does it. So there is system there that works maybe.
A player inventory basically. But do I want that? It feels like it would
increase the complexity a lot. But right now the question is what we need for
the prototype, and this is not a really a problem that needs to be solved at
this stage I don't think. So pick a thing and lets see how it goes. I think we
need to be able to do it without as well. Only then does the automation feel
good.

I don't know how I've gone and convinced myself that this is something that
could be made in two weeks, but I think for now its fine. Get it working, then
later figure out the other bs. Then the first thing would be to build a
structure. A mine.

I think the idea of needing structures for things to be done is good. We can
also just start off with a mine, and have that working, and then later go and
build more. So use a structure first.

Damn. Get back to work. These are things that are actually pretty easy to
implement and get done. Just procrastinating at this point. We need to learn
to get the stuff done faster so that we can get to the game. Remember this is
barely half the game.

We can have some thematic elements about pyramids, gold toppers and capturing
monsters or something like that?

So for the next one hour the plan is simple. First we get the actions working,
so the player can mine, pick up and drop off goods. After that the path
drawing, so that we can draw the path that the djinns would follow.

---

20 Jul 2024:
We did about half the plan in 75% of the time but we didnt do the second half
of what was "planned", so lets sit and get started with that stuffs now =)

Okay. So the next part of the plan was to make the djinn pathing. So lets get
started with that. Its kinda annoying, but okay. Lets do the things first. I
mean I think its annoying because its fiddly for the sake of being able to see
on screen. The underlying thing is probably not that bad. But okay. Be dirty
about it, really doesnt matter.

So the problem is that overdoing it also is not so useful. it'll be a pain
very soon later on. I think the "correct" way at this stage is to do a lot of
work everytime basically. Honestly the problem I am facing is not even hard, I
don't knwo why Im struggling.

We need a better set of intersection checks. Lol the thing I thought would
take half an hour yesterday, basically must have taken atleast 2-3 hours. But
atleast now we can do the thing at a decent clip.
Next create the djinn.

We now have a basic verions with one djinn moving around and doing things.
Next we need other structures, and some ways for the djinn to queue and wait
or something along those lines.

I think lets do the queuing things? That might be interesting? Basically a few
things. ONe is that at any stations that the djinn should technically have a
task, let them wait. Its either that or a queue based thing. But I don't feel
like implementing the queuing thing. I'd rather have multiple guys be going
there all the time. Would need to show that there are multiple guys waiting
there, but apart from that, I think it should be okay. Rather than clogging up
the lanes

Damn, I was not actually expecting that to work quite so easily. So now we try
with two djinns I guess. Done adding ability for player to build mines.
Awesome.

---

21 Jul 2024: 
SUNDAAAAYYY! But still we persevere. TO start off I would like to make sure
that the game run s in the background as well. So I think that means we need
to edit the update to run independently of the animate frame. But that looks
like it needs us to also change up the engine a bit...  Eh chuck it.  Let it
be as it is now. Don't want to get into the whole browser/js stuffs.

So I think we should start off with night? Okay. How to do that? Flags? I am
I think there is a somewhat serious question now about how we want the
automation / stuffs to work. Currently the idea is that daytime is low
pressure / no pressure, and you have energy, and once that's done (or not) you
can start off with night time. Which I think in general is okay for the
player.

The question is then about the djinns, and how their automation should work.
Ideally they should work in the day alonside you, and then once they're done,
be done. So in that case, the night should probably look the same with a dark
tint over it or something basic like that. Lets start off with night mode
then?

In terms of game things, I am thinking something like you can pick up sticks,
light them, and move them around. and drop them wherever you like. So its just
like running around and picking up the things.
And maybe the location of the light things is exactly the same as the mines?
Or something like that? I like that and how it ties the two modes together.

Okay lets try that. Also right now I am a litle scared of the approach of lets
try and see what comes out of it... because of how that messed up antbotics.
But muaybe this is different.,

So now the issue is that unless we have multiple things that need to be
protected, the best strategy is to just sit in on the thing. So I guess then
we would need to have two things to protect, but the problem there I think
still remains that what if they steal one?

So yeah, unless you're moving around, its no fun. So there has to be a good
reason to keep moving around and doing the things. Next step would be to make
the shadown pick up stuff. After that the goals of the other shadows can
change, get in the way or seomthing like that.

So as usual, I think we have started worrying too much about things that are
not super important now. THese things can all change in the long run. We just
need some kind of decision to be taken now. We have 2 magic things. They both
have to be kept safe. Simple enough to understand the interaction with the day
things can be done some other way overall. Or we can change that after som
etime.

Im just wondering about how engaging it would be to just keep people away all
the time... It's literally just running around. Again, question for later.

---

22 Jul 2024:
So I think the idea needs to be upated a bit. Unless the numbers reduce, there
is no way of doing much. So lets make some changes to see if we can have agame
where there is some way to reduce the numbers.
I like the idea of having to chase the guys into some kind of a trap. Because
the chase mechanic is kinda fun.

There is also a question as to what is the risk reward that we want to do.
Basically I feel that there should be some "risky" way to play the night that
allows you to grow your economy faster, ideally by having access to more
djinn. Somehow I managed to waste the whole day. Like most days. Pssh. No
worries. We work with love and not with hate. Its 730pm, still enough time to
get some work in :shrug:.

Okay, teh first thing that we woyuld need to try would be to push the shadows
in, nad make that the goal. The pushing obviously already works. Though maybe
we can spend some more time thinking about it.

What we need is a risk v reward in the mode as a whole. So that there is a
risky way to play, which allows you to get more djinns for the other half of
the game. I guess one way to think about it would be to make something like an
dler. Where the first few runs, you don't really have a chance of making the
goal. But everytime you fail, you prestige, and are able to last longer into
the night.

That's all well and good, but again it means that the night mechanic has to
have enough depth that it can actually work. And it has to somehow work with
the shadows theme.

The best idea I can think of now would be to allow the player to invest
resources into a djinn trap kinda thing which all warriors will try to attack,
and also to create some kind of test, where if a trap is not used over the
course of a night, then it generates djinn. Or something like that. So the way
that this version would be early-mid game of the final.

Okay. Lets try out this idea, and see how it feels. Okay, that's kinda fun.
It has potential. At least enough for this jam. For the rest of today, we just
want to do some polish things. Tomorrow, start combining the modes, and see
how that goes.
So timer for the trap. Okay, then animation for the shadow to disappear.

---

23 Jul 2024:
Hi Sam. I think today the idea is to be able to get the whole game loop going.
Very basic simple stuff. Just what we have now, but a way to do it all in game
and not need any secret controls.

1. Lose condition.
2. Controls for building, pathing, djinns.
3. switching between night and day.

Okay. I think in that order. Lets go. Cool. Losting and resetting is now done.
So next, the considerably harder part - the controls for building pathing and
djinns. It means adding some kind of controls. So how should the controls
look? Okay, I think I have an idea.

Now that I think about it, technically, all will not be during day, but
rather, at sunrise. So we dont have to "hide" the controls. They can be on
screen. Thought at sunrise, we also want to be able to view the base as it is,
so having some menu that blocks out the whole thing is not ideal. So the idea
is the same, but we still need a thing that can do the whole thing.

NEXT: Continue with all the menu conditions. We would need to add controls for
handling djinn and deleting paths.
Done. Start off with deleting paths then.

I have to wonder whether it's an issue that there are two ways of inputting:
with player, and with mouse. Thought maybe that's a problem for the full
game...

---

24 Jul 2024:
Right. So what is it that we would like to accomplish today. I think just
finish off the whole chain. And then get the nights to reset. Then we can
further figure out how we want the things to work.

So we want player to do action from some steps away. So how to do that? I
think we have to change things a bit.

NEXT: Prevent building on slots. Otherwise continue working. Things are going
well =D

Okay. Prevent building on slots and paths. Also make sure that paths cannot
pass through other structures. There is on bug with the pathing, but I think
its okay.
Im just trying to think about how the economy works, and I think it would make
sense if processed things are worth a lot more than the raw materials, so that
there is an exponential buildup of value.

---

25 Jul 2024:
I think we got the things all working yesterday. Today we need to think about
scaling, and how day and night complement each other. I like the idea of
having base slots. So the base can only have a few things that you can do at
night. So there is a choice that you have to make. Typically choose between
whether you want nights to be easier or days to scale harder.
Right now what is the call that we want to make? Or maybe again we can see
about that later.
 
 Whats the first thing to work on. HOw about we keep it simple, and add a key
 to get more gems? Also I really don't like that everything has to be done at
 sunset, and we cant build more during the day. That kinda sucks. The night
 thing and sunset is okay I think, but the day thing I don't like. So
 basically we need to do the whole menu thing in daytime also.

 So there is an issue now, that if there is already a good that works.
 What's the next thing? I think we might want to implement saving so that
 testing becomes a bit easier.

 I think the next step is to make a new structure that allows for combining
 into bigger things.

 So ideally, gameplay - when you esc, the game should pause, and you should be
 able to move djinn around.
 Also a splitter. We might also need to shrink the size of cells.

 ---

 26 Jul 2024:
 Okay. I think that today we really need to work on the night time things.
 So the main thing that we need to work out is how to scale.
 So this current lamp thing is not really working. The next idea is that we
 build lamps that point in a direction?

 I think the main issue is that we don't have a clear way idea of how to
 continue building out this mode. We may need a fresh start. What would the
 opposite of this be? Neednt be opposite, but whats another way that we can
 make this work.

 What else can we do with the idea of shadows. Something action top down.
 WHat else is even there in action top down? I'm trying to think if there is
 anything else that happens there. The one idea that I have is that standard
 top down shadow casting kinda thing. But what do we do with that? I don't
 have a fun action mechanic with that really.
 The other idea is light bouncing somehow. Again, action need not actually be
 running around and doing things. Its just some amount of randomness and time
 pressure. So that there is no one solution, and exectution actually matters.

 Lets think about some kind of grid based idea? So maybe it could be capturing
 shadows, and have some kind of score attack thing? But that's not really
 action, and I would prefer action. I also think that I have to give up the
 non violent thing.

 Lets think a little more about shadows from a top down perspective. Are
 shadows going to be _scared_ of light, or be attracted to it? Or have some
 other complex feeling? What would shadows want? Lets not be limited by the
 controls that we have. What are some of the other things that we can do?

 Shadows are an absence of light. So what if you somehow are controlling the
 shadows? WHat would that look and feel and play like. What are some of the
 things you migth want to be doing then?
 Maybe the player releases shadows around them everywhere they go. And the
 people attacking are carrying torches. But the torches are directional. So
 you need to "attack" them from behind, otherwise the shadows will get
 destroyed.
 But there are also other ways to destroy the shadows. Then the enemies will
 need a more sophisticated thing.

 I don't know it feels kinda stealth like, but I don't know how it builds. So
 lets keep thinking. I like the idea of the vision cones kinda idea though.
 Maybe we keep the same idea, except instead of just having light, we have to
 put out the fires / lamps that they bring.

 What about the idea that lamps are where djinns are stored. So maybe there's
 an interesting thing to do there. So djinns get trapped in lamps. What does
 that mean. How does it match with some of the things that we have. Maybe the
 djinns hate lamps, and so will attack them. Or maybe it means that the enemy
 come and trap the djinn.

 Again, what we are looking for is a mechanic. Running away from light doesn't
 feel like it works. Something that ideally matches with the kind of things
 that we have. That means, something that matches with how the buildings and
 paths are laid out.

 Tower defense just seems like it makes a lot of sense there. I want to have
 some kind of idea of shadows thouhg. Maybe it could be like a thing that
 light blocks the paths, and restricts it. So you can use lights to make the
 path tougher. How do you beat the things thouhg? Would that also be tower
 defense? What if we have something like plants v zombies.

 pinball? snake? Snake is a good idea, but I'm thinking of something else now.

 Basically, whenever you choose, you can start to create a trail of fire, and
 then when that closes, everything inside it gets acted on. destroyed or
 whatever.

 ---

 27 Jul 2024:
 Okay nice. We have laid out some more details with the gdd. That should be
 helpful. We need some 2d physics engine maybe? We have to choose whether we
 want to use a physics framework or write it ourselves. In this case, I don't
 know if we should do it for ourselves for the prototype. We should just use
 something that exists. Okay.

 Okay, it looks like the things dont work on wasm. So that's out. Lets search
 a bit more? I don't think any of these work for wasm. I guess we then try to
 roll our own. I don't think it'll be hard neccessarily, just that we have to
 do the thing. I think for now, just run n^2 loops, and worry about the other
 shit later. Cool.

 So what to do now. First update the shadows to the new behaviour.
For today:
[x] if you complete a loop, kill the shadows inside 
[x] player collisions with structure
[ ] if a structure is in a loop, it gets damaged
[ ] repair structures
[ ] if nothin

---

28 Jul 2024
SHIT. I accidentally lost a bit of progress in the notes file. I had a nice
list of tasks written last night, but they're gone now. Annoying. No worries.
Lets make the list again.

[X] Change the world size to have space for menus and things outside bounds.
[X] Fix some shadow collision issues
[X] Add a time limit for nights - so that you can't just wait around
[ ] Summoning - when you loop around sets of shadows+structures, effects are
enacted. So its an additional challenge thing that you can do.
[ ] Healths of structures should make more sense. Show them, and make
different shadows do different amounts of damage
[ ] If base is destroyed, lose game
[ ] Economy - figure out prices for things.
[ ] Add a splitter that distributes from one spot to many.

okay. lets do the screen thing. I think that should work. It would make a lot
of things easier later. 
So what can we do next? I think summoning is the least important, because we
can have a game even without that.

Okay lets do healths. Then we see.

Okay, I think theres an issue with the health / lose condition right now as it
stands. Specifically, its kinda hard to know when a building is taking damage
because your attention is definitely elsewhere on the screen. Im thinking
about how that could be dealt with. Maybe installing lights? But that could
make things trivial maybe? I think its okay. What we should do is add a sound
and animation effect.

Okay, lets see what we need for the alert system. We need to check each
shadow, if it is not scared by player, and see if it will hit any non-dead
structure, and in how much time, we then can store a list of this sorted by
time, and then as one reaches closer, it should play the thing louder.

The next question is how to space out the beeps, some state will be needed for
taht. Then there should be a timer, and then run mods on that to get the
timing. Should be okay. I don't want to run the distance checks every frame,
rather just when the players direction has changed.

Honestly super cool now that we have the sounds and alerts.

We need to add some kind of pressure at night. Like a timer, after which one
random shadow attacks base. Lets try that out.

NEXT: Figure out aggression. We want it to attack once and then lose
aggression. Right now its not attacking. Just going towards and getting stuck.
Also it gets stuck when we block it. We want it to kinda keep bouncing off..

---

29 Jul 2024:
Okay good we have a clear task to get started with. So we should do that
ideally lol. So we want some kind of bounciness. I think some of this is a
little hard to wrap my head around. The way that velocity should or should not
change etc. Maybe we should just have a fully separate thing for aggressive?

Okay damn. The aggresion thing is fascinating. It both forces you to move, and
makes the captures a lot easier. I like that as an idea. But unfortunately,
they don't seem to make contact with the structure and damage them...

Okay, that's fascinating. I think I like it. It might get overpowered. But
also I think if they don't always target the base, then you don't have to make
a thing like that.
